feat(curriculum): add fruit search useEffect workshop (#59544)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/workshop-fruit-search-app/67ed044dc76cf4a441618f2c.md

---
id: 67ed044dc76cf4a441618f2c
title: Step 5
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-5
---

# --description--

Create a `query` state variable and its setter function, `setQuery`, using the `useState` Hook.

# --hints--

You should use the array destructuring syntax for the `query` and `setQuery` variables.

```js

> assert.match(code, /(const|let)\s+\[\s*(query)\s*,\s*(setQuery)\s*\]\s*/);

Reviewer: parenthesis around `query` and `setQuery` variables aren't needed here

```

You should use the `useState` Hook.

```js

> assert.match(code, /useState\(/);

Reviewer: it looks like the other labs and workshops are using this approach for testing.
Make sure this works on your end but this is the test used from the color picker lab

```js
async () => {
    const abuseState = __helpers.spyOn(React, "useState");
    const script = [...document.querySelectorAll("script")].find((s) => s.dataset.src === "index.jsx").innerText;
    const exports = {};
    const _a = eval(script);
    const _b = await __helpers.prepTestComponent(exports.ColorPicker);
    assert.isAtLeast(abuseState.calls.length, 1);
}
```

```

Your `useState` Hook should have an initial value of an empty string (`''`).

```js

> assert.match(code, /useState\(\s*['"]{2}\s*\)/);

Reviewer: it looks like the other labs and workshops are using this approach to testing

here is an example from the color picker lab

````
You should pass `#ffffff` as the initial value to your `useState` call.

```js
async () => {
    const abuseState = __helpers.spyOn(React, "useState");
    const script = [...document.querySelectorAll("script")].find((s) => s.dataset.src === "index.jsx").innerText;
    const exports = {};
    const _a = eval(script);
    const _b = await __helpers.prepTestComponent(exports.ColorPicker);
    assert.match(abuseState.calls[0], /#ffffff/i);
}
```
````

---
id: 67ed044dc76cf4a441618f2c
title: Step 5
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-5
---

# --description--

> Create a `query` state variable with an empty string (`''`) value and its setter function, `setQuery`, using the `useState` Hook.

Reviewer: You need to provide context on why they are doing this. otherwise, campers won't know what they are doing or why they are doing it.

```suggestion
Now that the basic JSX is set up, it's time to track what the user types into the search input field. In previous lecture videos, you learned about controlled inputs, where form elements are tied directly to state variables in React.

To begin, create a state variable named `query` with an initial value of an empty string (''). Also define its corresponding setter function, `setQuery`, using the `useState` Hook.
```

  <script 
    data-plugins="transform-modules-umd"
    type="text/babel"
    src="index.jsx"
  ></script>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css" />
</head>
<body>
  <div id="root"></div>
  <script
    data-plugins="transform-modules-umd"
    type="text/babel"
    data-presets="react"
    data-type="module"
  >
    import { FruitsSearch } from './index.jsx';
    ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(<FruitsSearch />);
  </script>
</body>
</html>
```

```css
body {
  font-family: Arial, sans-serif;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  height: 100vh;
  background-color: #f4f4f4;
}

#search-container {
  text-align: center;
  background: white;
  padding: 20px;
  border-radius: 10px;
  box-shadow: 0 0 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
}

#search-input {
  padding: 10px;
  width: 80%;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  border-radius: 5px;
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}

#results {
  text-align: left;
  max-height: 150px;
  overflow-y: auto;
}
.result-item {
  padding: 5px;
  border-bottom: 1px solid #ddd;
}
```

```jsx
const { useState, useEffect } = React;

> --fcc-editable-region--
> export function FruitsSearch() {
> 
> --fcc-editable-region--

Reviewer: the editable region should not include the export function since they are not touching that part of the code.

```suggestion
export function FruitsSearch() {
--fcc-editable-region--

--fcc-editable-region--
```
